The Joe Rogan experience.
Garrett Vanden Bush said,
this is going to become a pandemic of variants and he talked about immune escape
and that has been very controversial, but they're explaining it to people.
Sure. What he argued. And let's just say,
could you explain who he is to sure. He is a, uh,
immuno biologist. He is training is veterinary. Um,
he has training in the relevant area, uh, of vaccination technology.
He was a guest on dark horse. People can look up my discussion with him. Uh,
it is, um, many people regard it as a very good way, uh,
to understand what he's saying, because often he speaks, uh,
about matters that are quite technical. And anyway,
I did my best in that podcast to make it non-technical so that people could
understand it in any case.
What he argued was that the
fact of these vaccines being very narrowly targeted, right?
These vaccines contain a single sub unit of a single protein.
And they're being deployed in a way that is unusual.
They're being deployed into an active pandemic, right?
When we immunized against something like measles,
the expectation is you will develop your full immunity with almost no chance of
encountering measles, right?
In this case that we have our vaccines that are leaky in which they do not
provide full sterilizing immunity, they are narrow. And,
um, we are effectively creating an intense evolutionary pressure to cause the
spike protein of which this one sub unit is what is contained the
information for it is contained in the vaccines.
We are putting intense evolutionary pressure on it to change so that the
antibodies and other immune cell recognition mechanisms that
are trained by the vaccines are incapable of finding the pathogen.
When it gets in,
this is what causes a breakthrough cases that the immunity that's been created
is evaded by the pathogen. And if the pathogen changes, um, that is more likely.
And so what he said was,
if you vaccinate into an active pandemic with vaccines like this,
what you will get is a evolutionary pressure for a
radiation of variants and evolutionary radiation of, um,
different molecular signatures changes in the spike protein that will then
cause the vaccines to be less and less effective at producing immunity,
which is exactly what we see. So he predicted this. Absolutely.
He did predict accurately accurate, accurately predicted it.
Now is every component of his model, correct?
That's a much harder question to answer,
but what I would say is any time somebody succeeds in predicting
better than the so-called experts, you want to know how they did it.
And he was making absolute evolutionary sense, right?
His concerns were very well honed and he was making sense.
And then the world that he predicted emerged,
and it is now incumbent on us to say, okay,
have we learned anything from this? Right?
Do the vaccines need to be modified such that they don't produce this effect?
There are conceivable ways you could do that. Right? But if we don't do it,
if we just say, well, more of the same, have a booster of the same thing,
it's not going to solve the problem. So in effect,
what I would say is these vaccines are a
spectacular achievement, but they are a prototype, right?
They have achieved something that had never been done before.
Technologically that's remarkable, but they were not ready for prime time.
And they have failed to produce lasting immunity.
They have produced very narrow immunity.
It does not compare to the natural immunity that people get from having had and
beaten the disease. And what's more,
we have learned an awful lot about how the disease can be managed.
So it's much less lethal, right?
That combination suggests that we need a rethinking of our approach.
And you know, it is impossible to prove,
but based on what people who have successfully treated the disease and have
successfully predicted events like the proliferation of variants are telling us,
it does seem that we now have the tools at our disposal to manage this crisis
and do away with it, which I don't know why we don't do that,
but it is at least worth noting that we're we to successfully manage
it. It would interrupt a huge flow of revenue
into this brand new pharma market.
Is that the reason that we don't do it? I don't know, but we,
the public need to recognize our interests are not being served by
the public health apparatus. It is making errors that it doesn't need to make.
And that, that, um,
has implications for all of our individual health and our collective wellbeing
that, uh, require a rethink Watson.
The entire episode for free only on Spotify.